---
name: "Lotus and Light Designs"
url: "https://www.loveaustralianhandmade.com/lotusandlightdesigns"
phone: null
email: null
facebook: "https://facebook.com/lotusandlightdesigns/"
instagram: "https://instagram.com/Lotus_and_light_designs"
logo: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/AE8E6AE2-8FB8-4993-99E2-76D87F01BC86.jpeg"
description: "One of a kind, handcrafted crystal and organic jewellery designed to celebrate the unique and divine gifts the natural world provides us with. Intentional, slow made and sustainable jewellery to adorn yourself with everyday, connecting you to the natural world and reminding you to live the life of your dreams. I use recycled copper and ethically sourced crystals, feathers and shells in my designs."
ethicalDescription: "We are interconnected with all of the life forms that inhabit this magical place, that we temporarily call home. And I am constantly inspired, in awe of and appreciative of the unique and wonderful world we live within. I have always connected jewellery with my life experiences, as each piece comes with its own story and memory that I treasure. For this reason, I chose to turn my passion for the natural world and jewellery into a small handmade business. Each piece of jewellery takes 2-4 days to complete, from hand shaping and hammering the ring bands or bezels for the pendants, to choosing and sourcing crystals from ethical sellers. I also use recycled copper for my work to reduce my environmental impact. I spend time searching for fallen leaves, branches, shed feathers and seashells that I can incorporate into my designs, so all of my organic pieces are completely natural. Nature is a tapestry of inspiring and imaginative artwork, and I use simple designs to showcase the beauty of each crystal or piece of organic material I feature in my work. Each piece of my jewellery is an invitation. To slowdown, appreciate simplicity and be inspired by the wonder of the natural world. I hope my jewellery also becomes a part of your story and holds many treasured memories and moments."
criteria:
  - "Fair Trade"
  - "Local Produce/Local Artist"
departments:
  - "Jewellery"
categories:
  - "Vegan"
  - "Plastic Free"
  - "Handmade"
  - "Female Empowerment"
products:
  - product_name: "Chrysocolla Crystal Necklace"
    product_description: "This delight features a vibrant chrysocolla gemstone set in copper on a dainty copper chain. \n\nThe energy of chrysocolla is that of the goddess, her strength, wisdom and balance. Bringing the masculine and feminine into alignment, whilst focussing the mind and allowing you to speak your heart. \n\nThe crystal pendant is 3cm long and 1.5cm wide. The copper chain is 44cm long, and sealed to prevent any tarnishing or interaction with the skin. \n\nI have set this necklace through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the bail for the necklace, which the chain will pass through. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper before adding a chain to finish the necklace. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/27BE092B-20AF-4399-AC2A-D3F0734F9019.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Prehnite Crystal Necklace"
    product_description: "Prehnite glows with light. A crystal to heal the healer, this beautiful gem has epidote inclusions, and instills unconditional love while healing your heart, and helping you to work through deep seated fears, removing any unease. \n\nI have set this necklace through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the bail for the necklace, which the chain will pass through. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper and add a chain and clasp and its finished!! \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. \n\nThis necklace is 43cm long including the clasp, and the crystal is 3cm by 2cm."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/07C5FDFE-70D1-4D89-A56B-32DC46792D5D.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Seashell and Crystal Necklace"
    product_description: "There's nothing quite like feeling the warm sand between your toes and watching the waves crash on the shore, with the sunlight glistening on the water, it's basically heaven! For those times you are unable to lose yourself at the beach, this beautiful and one of a kind seashell necklace has you covered. \n\nThis handknotted necklace features, amazonite, citrine and sunstone, with a natural seashell encased in copper. The necklace is51cm long and the shell is 2.5cm wide and 2cm tall. \n\nThis beauty has the calming and optimistic energies of these gems, combined with the courage to speak your truth, while empowering you to remain true to yourself. \n\nThe necklace is finished with a silver toggle clasp and sits between the collar bones. \n\nMany thanks for viewing my work. Each piece is handmade with care and gratitude for these natural gifts I am fortunate to create with."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/CD69B912-45B6-4FB9-8BF8-FE91E86AEFC0.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Amethyst Slice Necklace"
    product_description: "These amethyst slices are all so unique and eye catching. Portals to another world! When I saw these incredibly unique and imperfectly shaped amethyst slices I basically had to have them all! \n\nI absolutely love their geometric patterns and how the copper sets off the beautiful layers of deep purple amethyst and quartz. \n\nAvailable with with a black adjustable cord necklace or copper chain. The copper chain necklace is 51cm including the clasp. \n\nAmethyst connects to our crown chakra, our source energy, giving us faith in ourselves, our confidence and intuition. It will support you in forming and achieving your goals, and working toward them."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/image5.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Muscovite Crystal Ring"
    product_description: "Muscovite Mica is mother nature’s glitter. This ring features a soft red/pink hued crystal with silver glitter through it depending on the light. It’s a magical and otherworldly energy that softly reminds you of the magic in your life, and reminds you to connect to all parts of your mind and spirit. This crystal will help you remain in the present moment, melting any tensions away. If you have been unintentionally holding yourself back, muscovite will help you dissolve any blocks and help you learn from your past experiences as you create a different future, using your innate gifts. The crystal is 8mm wide and 13mm long. \n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and making the ring band from copper. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper to complete the ring.\n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. The ring shown here is a size 6.5- 7 And ready to ship!\n\nTo find your ring size, click on this link: https://findmyringsize.com"
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Muscovite Crystal Ring.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Golden Rutile Quartz Crystal Necklace"
    product_description: "This stunning golden rutile quartz appears as though it’s captured a golden flower inside. This quartz is a master healer, and amplifies the healing golden energies of the rutilated crystals inside. You will feel overwhelmed and cocooned in it’s uplifting and joyful vibrations of pure sunlight and healing rays.\n\nA special piece, wrapped in tarnish resistant brass wire to show off the crystal that is nature’s masterpiece.\n\nThe necklace is on a black cord that has an adjustable end, it can be between 43cm and 48cm long.\n\nI only have one available."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Golden Rutile Quartz Crystal Necklace.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Oval Rainbow Moonstone Ring"
    product_description: "Rainbow moonstone embodies the feminine. Connected to the moon, this beauty will teach you to trust yourself and your intuition, showing you the magic in life and yourself. If you're anything like me, you won't be able to stop staring at the depths of this gemstone with the rainbow of colours that are displayed, particularly a beautiful flashy blue. Rainbow monotone is a perfect companion to carry daily, to remind you of the strength in intuitive knowledge, sensitivity, and the divine feminine. \n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and making the ring band from copper. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper to complete the ring.\n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. The ring shown here is a size 7 And ready to ship!\n\nTo find your ring size, click on this link: https://findmyringsize.com"
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Oval Rainbow Moonstone Ring.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Peruvian Pink Opal Ring"
    product_description: "Peruvian pink opal is unique and subtle crystal, with her many layers of pink, appearing in different tones depending on the light and pairs so well with copper.\n\nThe asymmetrical crystal ring is the ONLY ring available and is a size 8.5. The crystal measures approximately 1.2cm x .6cm.\n\nPeruvian pink opal is a heart healing gem, considered to be a gift from Pachamama, the earliest Inca Goddess of Fruitfulness and Mother Earth, and is wonderfully soothing for children and animals, and adults overwhelmed by life. It is particularly useful for healing old emotional wounds, from this life or another, bringing an inner peace to carry one through difficult times. Andean stones promote right action for the highest good and stimulate connection with others and communication from the heart. Nurturing and comforting she’s a delight to wear.\n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the ring band. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper to finish off your ring.\n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. To find your ring size, click on this link: https://findmyringsize.com"
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Peruvian Pink Opal Ring.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Natural 2 Tone Seashell Necklace"
    product_description: "There's nothing quite like feeling the warm sand between your toes and watching the waves crash on the shore, with the sunlight glistening on the water, it's basically heaven! For those times you are unable to lose yourself at the beach, this beautiful and one of a kind seashell necklace has you covered. \n\nFeaturing a beautiful natural seashell with vibrant pink tones that I’ve hand collected from the beach, and immortalised in copper, so you can carry the beautiful energy of the beach with you everyday with this elegantly designed one of a kind necklace.\n\nThe shell is 3cm across and the whole pendant is 5.5cm. The chain is 44cm long and the metal has all be sealed to prevent any tarnishing or oxidisation. \n\nI have set this necklace through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the bail for the necklace, which the chain will pass through. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper before adding a chain to finish the necklace. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw organic piece, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Natural 2 Tone Seashell Necklace.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Natural Feather Necklace"
    product_description: "There is just something so alluring about feathers, whenever I pass one I stop and pick it up, feeling that light and free energy the birds carry. So easily soaring to great heights, with their all encompassing perspective. Each and every feather so unique, yet perfectly designed to carry out it's purpose. Feathers are such beautiful reminder of so many important lessons, especially these duck feathers as they remind us to let things go like water off a ducks back.\n\nThese feathers have all been electroformed in copper, and patina'd with the most wonderful depth of colours on them. Each feather is individual and the size is 5-5.5cm in length, and comes on a dainty copper chain. Currently designed to sit just below the collar bones, if you'd like a longer necklace please just ask."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Natural Feather Necklace.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Blue Lace Agate Crystal Necklace"
    product_description: "This delight features a vibrant blue lace agate crystal set in copper on a dainty copper chain. \n\nThe energy of blue lace agate is pure peace, calming the mind and allowing you to speak your heart. The banding is reminiscent of glacial ice, formed over millions of years, offering us a perspective of our time and place on earth. \n\nThe crystal pendant is is 2.5cm long and 1cm wide. The chain is 43cm long including the clasp.\n\nI have set this necklace through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the bail for the necklace, which the chain will pass through. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper before adding a chain to finish the necklace. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Blue Lace Agate Crystal Necklace.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Faceted Amethsyt Rings"
    product_description: "These eye catching deep purple amethyst crystals rings pair so beautifully with warm copper tones.\n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the ringband first. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper molecules from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. \n\nAmethyst connects to our crown chakra, and supports us by enhancing our will power, connecting us to our higher source and calming our mind. Amethyst connects to our crown chakra, and supports us by enhancing our will power, connecting us to our higher source and calming our mind. \n\nThis is a beautiful stone to work with if you have an overactive mind or need to reconnect to your spiritual centre.\n\nTo find your ring size, please visit https://findmyringsize.com/"
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Faceted Amethsyt Rings.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Pink/Lilac Kunzite Ring"
    product_description: "Pink/Lilac kunzite is a delightful crystal, connected to the heart centre, she stimulates a connection between heart and mind. Joyful and uplifting this sweet crystal encourages us to let down our walls to allow unconditional love and joy into our lives. Kunzite reminds us of the beauty and perfection of the present moment, and encourages us to speak our feelings. \n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the ringband first.Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I havecompleted these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper molecules from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requiresconstant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once thepiece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper before adding a chain to finish the necklace. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come. To find your ring size, please visit https://findmyringsize.com/"
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Pink_Lilac Kunzite Ring.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Citrine Crystal Ring"
    product_description: "Citrine is an energetic crystal, connected to the solar plexus, the energy centre that governs our confidence, self esteem, inner fire and drive. \n\nCitrine is perfect for those days you are feeling tired or lethargic, in need of motivation and a powerful reminder of your inner nature, your unique and special energy that you bring to the world. Citrine will remind you of your inner value and help you to embody the confidence to authentically live the life you want of live. Citrine also helps us invite abundance and joy into our lives, with the light of the sunshine.\n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the ringband first. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper molecules from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/citrine.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Labradorite and Onyx Necklace"
    product_description: "This simple and elegant necklace features labrodorite and onyx, with a small lotus charm. The lotus is a symbol of growth and transformation. Labrodorite  is such a wonderful Crystal as it connects you with your imagination, your vision and encourages you to dream big, offering a protective energy at the same time. And Onyx, well, she was the perfect match. Protective and grounding, she roots your feet to the earth while labrosirtw raises you up to the skies with your dreams, so onyx helps you stay focussed and plan the steps you need to take, to bring your ideas into reality. This necklace is lightweight and perfect to wear everyday. It is 58cm long and has a simple silver clasp to finish."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Labradorite and Onyx Necklace.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Green Aventurine Crystal Orb"
    product_description: "This necklace features a stunning deep green aventurine crystal wrapped up in layers of copper. This design is created around the crystal to give the appearance of the crystal floating inside. It is very secure, and looks beautiful on. Green aventurine brings feelings of belonging, activating your connection to earth, and showing you that you are and always have been home here. It is a stone of prosperity and luck, inspiring optimism and joy."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Green Aventurine Crystal Orb.jpeg"
  - product_name: "Mooralla Smokey Quartz Ring"
    product_description: "This beautiful gemstone is from the Mooralla mine in Victoria. Grounding and solid, smokey quartz brings you to earth and anchors your energy to focus and achieve your hearts desires. A powerful protective crystal she will support you in finding your place and belonging. \n\nThis ring is a size 7. The back of the crystal is open to allow light to pass, for there is always light in the darkest of days.\n\nI have set this ring through the process of electroforming. I begin by preparing the crystal and creating the ringband first. Once I am happy with the setting, I paint a conductive paint onto the parts of the crystal I need the copper to plate onto. The next step is protecting the rest of the crystal with a temporary sealant. Once I have completed these steps, I’m finally ready to put the crystal into my electroforming solution, and use electricity to move copper molecules from one place to another. This process can take anywhere from 24-48 hours, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the process is smooth, and does not happen too quickly, as this affects the quality of the plating. Once the piece is ready, I clean it, remove any sealant from the crystal and finally, sand and polish the copper. \n\nIt’s quite a process from beginning with a raw crystal, to the finished result and one that I absolutely love. I hope that you treasure your new piece of jewellery for a long time to come."
    product_image: "/images/uploads/lotus-and-light-designs/Mooralla Smokey Quartz Ring.jpeg"
---
